so your friend or maybe your family
member has asked you to give
a speech at their wedding
and now you're panicked you don't know
what to do you don't know what to talk
about how long should it be
you have all these questions running
through your mind
relax don't worry you have come to the
right place
i have had the privilege of giving
speeches at many friends weddings and
today
in this video i am going to give you
tips
on how you can crush that speech and
make it
memorable for the bride and groom what's
up everyone my name is wade patterson
my youtube channel is all about
communication so if this video is
helpful
make sure you subscribe like comment do
all of those
and i'm going to continue delivering
videos that help you be
a better communicator so back to the
wedding speeches
you're asked to give a speech you're
wondering well what does a great speech
look like the first piece of advice i
have for you is that every great speech
has an introduction a body
and a conclusion so an introduction
is a great line or maybe a paragraph a
few
sentences that draws in the audience's
interest the body is the majority of the
speech which maybe includes a personal
story
and the conclusion is what wraps that
all
up into a nice sentence which allows you
to say let's raise a glass to this
couple
or something along those lines now
almost
every wedding speech i have seen that i
would categorize
as the best of those speeches includes a
personal story a personal story that is
relatable to everybody
especially if it includes a little bit
of self-deprecating humor
on your own behalf that is what the
audience will really
love you can poke a little bit of fun at
the bride and groom but you don't want
to
roast those people you want to if
anything
include self-deprecating humor and make
them
raise them up make them feel very
special and one of the keys you want to
do
is get the audience to laugh early so if
you can include a little piece of humor
right up front in the first minute
it's going to do two things first off
it's going to allow the
audience to relax so so many audiences
the first thing that goes through their
mind when they see a speaker
is is this person going to be funny
that's one of the first questions they
have in their mind
and when you make them laugh especially
early on
it relaxes them and they know okay this
is going to be a good speech but the
thing it does for you
is it relaxes you humor is one of the
best tools you can leverage as a speaker
because when the audience laughs
you get an instant dose of confidence
and
you are able to carry through the rest
of that speech
knowing that you're on a roll you're
going you've got the laughter already
that's done but the longer you delay
that bit of humor
the longer it's going to take and it's
going to be even that much more
difficult
to get the audience to laugh later on in
the speech
so my piece of advice number two is to
inject a little bit of humor up front
get the audience laughing and relaxed
and then you are on your way
from a tactical point of view i would
suggest that you do
not write out your speech word for word
with really detailed notes
i know that's a little bit scary and
that many of you think well i'll need
those notes what if i forget what i'm
going to talk about i'm not saying not
to have notes
the best speeches don't have notes they
are personal stories that are practiced
and rehearsed and you're
confident delivering them but if you
need to have notes
that's fine but stick to a couple word
phrases that remind you of
specific things you're going to talk
about so for example
if you're going to tell a story of
steve's football days
then write on your notes steve football
story
something that jogs your memory to talk
about that and then if you can't
remember
if steve's marrying rachel and you want
to say something nice about rachel
in your notes rather than writing out a
paragraph about why rachel's such a
great person
simply put nice things about rachel
because you will remember those things
right away
and you'll be able to transition to them
you should be able to write
your notes on a few cue cards that are
subtle
rather than multiple pieces of paper
because the more you're reading off
it's less likely to get the audience to
relax it's less likely to really
engage them now if you're not confident
with that approach
that's okay you can write out the full
speech but i would suggest that
at the beginning of each paragraph just
put a bold word
there what that paragraph is about and
on the speech day
you'll be surprised you'll look at that
and you won't need to read
the notes you'll simply see what that
paragraph is about and you will remember
because you've done your practice
and you'll be able to deliver that
flawlessly and that is the next piece of
advice
is to practice don't wing it when it
comes to a speech a lot of people joke
about ha ha i'm winging it
first off you'd be surprised how many
people are lying they've actually
practiced it many times they just want
to
lower the expectations but the second
thing is the audience can tell when you
haven't prepared
so you want to make sure i mean this is
your friend's
big day you want to make sure that you
have done your part
to deliver a memorable experience that
they're going to recall fondly rather
than
remember oh remember when so-and-so gave
the worst speech i've ever heard
you don't want to be that person so make
sure that you put in the time
practice you can even record yourself on
your phone
or practice the speech in front of one
of your friends who maybe isn't going to
the wedding and get them to give
you their honest opinion of what they
think but definitely
practice before you deliver the speech
if you're wondering
how long the speech should be i
typically think around
five to seven minutes is the ideal
length if you go too much more than
seven minutes
it starts to feel like it's dragging on
and if it's less than
four or five minutes people will think
oh that was pretty quick and it doesn't
seem like you actually
put your time into it what you need to
remember is that
often we speak faster in front of a
group of people
than we do when we're on our own
practicing
so keep that in mind if you've practiced
your speech with nobody in the room and
it's
only five minutes well it's probably
going to be four minutes or three
minutes when you deliver that same
speech in front of a group of people
because the nerves are there and it
speeds up what we're doing so on that
note you may want to aim
for practicing on your own a speech
that's about seven minutes because once
you get
in front of the group you will be
quicker what you want to make sure you
do with your speech whether it's
a toast to the bride or a toast to the
groom is acknowledge
their partner as well so this is a great
chance to do right before
the conclusion in the speeches i've
given
i've told a story primarily about the
guy
so it's the groom who i know who's my
close friend
and i've told a personal story about
that person
and then of course wrapped it up with
why they're actually a great person
but after i've told the story about the
groom
i bring in the bride and i i talk about
all of her amazing qualities and why
i'm so happy these two have found each
other because their qualities are going
to complement
each other and then from there it brings
you into your conclusion
maybe one last sentence of why you're so
thrilled this marriage is happening
and then raise a glass toast to the
beautiful couple something along those
lines but you want to make sure
you recognize the other partner so even
if your speech is supposed to be about
the groom
still have a few nice things to say
about the bride
one thing you may want to avoid doing is
to tell stories that are really inside
jokes so a lot of times i've been at
weddings and they're like
hey sandra you remember that story you
know you know
and everyone else is like we don't know
we don't
get what's happening so if you're going
to tell an inside joke
story you need to tell the full story
and allow everyone in on the joke
if you just give subtle references and
point to one particular person
that person might find it hilarious but
the 80 150
250 other people will not understand
what you're talking about so be mindful
of the full
crowd when you're telling an inside joke
or a story
and make sure everyone feels included
another way your speech can be
really powerful is by incorporating eye
contact
so as you're telling it make your best
effort to look around the room and
acknowledge especially if there's
several tables all around the room
try to make eye contact with at least
one person
at every table and if that's very
intimidating for you
a trick i use sometimes is looking at
their foreheads
they don't know that i'm not looking
them right at the eyes but if i'm scared
about what reaction they might have
i look a little bit above their eye line
and they think i'm still looking them in
the
eyes but then it allows me to just
glance my eye contact from table to
table
but the more you do that the more
everyone feels included on the speech
now if you're someone who hasn't given
too many speeches before
it's really important to record yourself
because
you may notice that you use a lot of
filler words
now what are filler words there are
those words like ah
um but so and
anything that is used to fill up the
silence
for example as i'm talking to you right
now
i am not using filler words
whereas a lot of people especially if
they're not used to speaking in front of
a group
they say so i met steve um
about eight years ago and uh he's such a
great guy
um steve is just amazing and uh
and they use ah or um or one of those
words
because it feels awkward to have silent
space
at least it feels awkward for you the
truth is
it's the opposite for the audience if
you're including a
um or in between every sentence
it's actually quite distracting to
listen to
but if you pause and you allow for
silence
it might feel uncomfortable for you but
it's actually
easier to listen to as an audience
so it's a great idea to actually after
you've gone to a point where you've
written a speech you've practiced it you
don't really need to look at your notes
too often
try recording yourself and see if you're
using any of these filler words
and then understand what your filler
words are and try to eliminate those
as you practice more and more the final
tip i would give
for this video is to deliver from the
heart
at the end of the day even if you're
reading your notes
and even if you don't make the audience
laugh the most important thing is that
you're honest that you
tell the bride and groom how much it
means to you
to be there on their special day how
much it means that
you're given the chance to to tell about
your relationship
with those people and why you're excited
for them
why you think that they're going to have
a phenomenal future together because you
know that they are the perfect couple
for each other
a line like that that's really genuine
is going
to go so far and especially on the
conclusion side of things if you can
wrap up the speech like that
i mean on a day of a wedding there's
emotions are flying and
you know you might even get the tears
going from the audience if you can
really just speak from the heart and so
if nothing else if you're not the person
to make it
funny or to include humor or to look
everywhere around the room
the best piece of advice i could give
you is make that speech from the heart
say what you genuinely feel toward that
couple and make sure that they feel
loved on the most important day of their
lives
let me know in the comments are you
giving a speech coming up in the next
few months
did you already give a wedding speech
how did it go
i'd love to hear from you and please
subscribe to my channel i am passionate
about
communications and making you a more
impactful communicator
and i would love it love it if you
subscribe to my channel
hit that like button you know what to do
thanks so much for stopping by and i'll
catch you next time